## ARTICLE 7.7<br/>REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE FROM SIDEWALKS

### SECTION 7.7.1 BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS

In all Business and Industrial Districts, as defined and
delineated in the Zoning By-law, the owner, or his/her
agent, of any land abutting upon or contiguous to a
sidewalk of a street shall cause said sidewalk to be
maintained in a non-slippery condition suitable for
pedestrian travel by clearing all snow and ice from a
pathway at least thirty-six (36) inches in width along the
length of said sidewalk within the first three hours
between sunrise and sunset after such snow and ice has come
upon such sidewalk, and shall maintain said portion of
sidewalk in a non-slippery condition by application(s) of
sand and/or melting agents as may be necessary for this
purpose.

### SECTION 7.7.2 MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS

The owner, or his/her agent, of any building designed or
occupied as a residence by more than four families or which
contains more than four dwelling units, as defined in the
Zoning By-law, shall cause all sidewalks of a street which
are contiguous to the land upon which the building is
situated to be maintained in a non-slippery condition
suitable for pedestrian travel by clearing all snow and ice
from a pathway at least thirty-six (36) inches in width
along the length of said sidewalk within the first three
hours between sunrise and sunset after such snow and ice
has come upon such sidewalk, and shall maintain said
portion of sidewalk in a non-slippery condition by
application(s) of sand and/or melting agents as may be
necessary for this purpose.

### SECTION 7.7.3 GENERAL REQUIREMENT

Except as set forth in Subsections (a) and (b) above, the
owner, or his/her agent, of any land abutting upon or
contiguous to a sidewalk of a street shall cause said
sidewalk to be maintained in a non-slippery condition
suitable for pedestrian travel by clearing all snow and ice
from a pathway at least thirty-six (36) inches in width
along the length of said sidewalk within thirty (30) hours
of the cessation of each storm that results in the
accumulation of snow and/or ice on such sidewalk, and shall
maintain said portion of sidewalk in a non-slippery
condition by application(s) of sand and or melting agents
as may be necessary for this purpose. The Commissioner of
Public Works, or his/her designee, may grant a waiver from
the terms of this Section 7.7.3 for good cause.

### SECTION 7.7.4 NO ICE AND SNOW TO BE PLACED ON STREET

No person, unless authorized by the Commissioner of Public
Works, shall place or cause to be placed ice or snow upon
any street of the Town. Without limiting the generality of
the foregoing, no person, unless authorized by the
Commissioner of Public Works, shall place or cause to be
placed ice or snow upon any sidewalk of the Town.

### SECTION 7.7.5 PENALTIES

The violation of any provision of Sections 7.7.1 and 7.7.2
of this Article 7.7 shall be punishable by a fine not
exceeding One Hundred ($100.) Dollars for each offense. In
any fiscal year, the first violation of any provision of
ARTICLE 7.3 shall be noted with a Warning. The second and
each subsequent violation, in any fiscal year, of said
Article 7.3 shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding
Twenty-Five ($25.00) Dollars for each violation.

### SECTION 7.7.6 ANNUAL REPORT

The Board of Selectmen shall include in the Annual Report
of the Town a summary of the Townâ€™s efforts and results
during the past year in implementing Sections 7.7.1, 7.7.2,
and 7.7.3, including, but not limited to, public education,
enforcement and assistance to owners.
