## ARTICLE 10.3<br/>NON-CRIMINAL DISPOSITION

A violation of any provision of these by-laws, the violation of which is
subject to a specific penalty under Section 10.1 or in the specific
provision which has been violated, except when otherwise provided by
law, or any rule or regulation of any municipal officer, board or
department may be dealt with as a non-criminal offense in accordance
with the provisions of General Laws, Chapter 40, section 21d. If not
subject to a specific penalty in the following table, each violation
shall be subject to a specific penalty of fifty (\$50.00) dollars for
each offense, unless a different penalty is provided in the specific
by-law, rule or regulation provision being enforced. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as a separate offense
hereunder. Violations of this Article 10.3 may be enforced by any police
officer of the town, by the department head or his or her designee as
set forth with particular reference to specific articles in Article
10.2, above, and, when a violation involves a rule or regulation of any
municipal officer, board or department, by that municipal officer or by
that board or the head of that department, by his or her designee, and
in all instances, in accordance with the requirements set forth in
General Laws, Chapter 40, section 21d.

***TABLE OF SPECIFIC PENALTIES UNDER ARTICLE 10.3***
```
  Article 5.1    Alarm Systems
                 Section 5.1.9       False Alarms              $100.00
                 Section 5.1.10      Penalties                 $100.00

  Article 5.8    Sign By-Law
                 Section 5.8.9       Penalty For Violation     $100.00



  Article 6.2    Alcoholic Beverages on Public Property
                 Section 6.2.2       Penalty                   $100.00

  Article 6.3    Grass Borders                                 $ 75.00

  Article 6.4    Damage To Trees                               $100.00

  Article 6.5    Defacing Public Grounds                       $ 75.00

  Article 6.6    Discharging Firearms                          $100.00

  Article 7.1    Alcoholic Beverages                           $100.00

  Article 7.3    Construction In Streets
                 Section 7.3.3       Penalty                   $100.00

  Article 7.6    Newsrack Regulation
                 Section 7.6.5       Penalty                   $ 25.00

  Article 7.7    Removal Of Snow And Ice From Sidewalks
                 Section 7.7.5 Penalties For
                    Sections 7.7.1 & 7.7.2                     $100.00
                 For Section 7.7.3
                    First Violation                            Warning
                 Second & Subsequent Violations                $ 25.00

  Article 7.8    Removal Of Vehicles From Streets              $ 25.00

  Article 7.9    Snow Parking Ban                              $100.00

  Article 8.3    Dwelling Houses Used In Common                $100.00

  Article 8.6    Dog Control
                 Section 8.6.9 Penalty
                    First Violation                            $15.00
                    Second & Third Violations                  $ 25.00
                    Fourth & Subsequent Violations             $ 50.00

  Article 8.7    Food Stores – Hours Of Operation              $ 50.00

  Article 8.8    Food Establishements Handling Of Refuse       $100.00

  Article 8.9    Toilet Facilities – Restaurants               $ 50.00

  Article 8.23   Tobacco Control
                    Section 8.23.5
                      Violations & Penalties

  For each violation under Article 8.23 - Three Hundred
  Dollars ($300.00).

  Article 8.24   Water Supply Emergencies
                   Section 8.24.6
                        Penalties
                        First Violation                        $ 50.00
                        Second & Subsequent Violations         $100.00
  
  Article 8.25   Water System Backflow And Cross Connections
                   Section 8.25.6 Enforcement                  $100.00

  Article 8.26   Stormwater Management
                   First Violation                             $100.00
                   Second Violation                            $200.00
                   Third and Subsequent Violations             $300.00
```

***HEALTH DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS***

***Regulations Governing the Handling, Storage, Collection and Disposal
of Waste***

```
1.  Violations and Penalties for Owners of Commercial Businesses,
    Corporations and Buildings Containing More than Three Dwelling
    Units

    First Violation                   $100.00
    Second Violation                  $200.00
    Third & Subsequent Violations     $300.00

2.  Violations and Penalties for Owners of Single, Two and Three Unit
    Dwellings

     First Violation                  $ 20.00
     Second Violation                 $ 35.00
     Third & Subsequent Violations    $ 50.00
```
