## ARTICLE 2.1<br/>TOWN MEETINGS

### SECTION 2.1.1 CALLING OF MEETINGS

Every Town Meeting shall be called pursuant to a Warrant which shall
state the time and place at which the meeting shall convene and the
subjects which shall be acted upon.

### SECTION 2.1.2 OPENING OF THE WARRANT

At least fourteen days prior to the opening of the Warrant for the
Annual or a Special Town Meeting, the Board of Selectmen shall post
notices of their intention to do so in at least ten places in the Town
and shall notify each Town Meeting Member in writing of the opening date
and closing date for submission of Articles to said Warrant and shall
publish notice thereof in a newspaper of general circulation throughout
Brookline. Such written notification by the Board of Selectmen shall be
made by mail to the Town Meeting Member's address on file with the Town
Clerk's office. No such notification shall be necessary where a Special
Town Meeting has been called by a citizen's petition.

In lieu of the above mailing requirement, the Board of Selectmen may
send the required notice electronically to any Town Meeting Member who
so requests.

### SECTION 2.1.3 FILING OF ARTICLES

All Articles for insertion in the Warrant for any Annual or Special Town
Meeting shall be filed in the office of the Board of Selectmen prior to
12:00 noon on the 75th day preceding the scheduled date of the opening
session of said meeting. On the 75th day preceding the scheduled date of
the opening session of said meeting, the Warrant shall be closed, and as
soon as practicable thereafter signed, including only those Articles
filed by the 75th day preceding said scheduled date.

### SECTION 2.1.4 WARRANT REPORTS FOR ARTICLES

There shall be filed with each Article intended for the Warrant a brief
statement or explanation by the proponent. The Selectmen shall prepare a
report on the Articles in the Warrant to be included in the combined
reports described in Section 2.5.2.

An Article submitted by the Board of Selectmen, or other Town Board,
Commission or Department, shall be deemed to be incomplete and not
acceptable for insertion in the Warrant unless all plans, specifications
and estimates and other supporting data necessary for its consideration
by Town Meeting, as well as the explanation of the purpose of the
Article, are submitted prior to said deadlines. The insertion of such an
Article in the Warrant by the Board of Selectmen shall be conclusive
evidence of compliance with the condition set forth in the preceding
sentence.

The Warrant for the Annual Town Meeting shall include an Article
providing the opportunity to terminate and close out accounts for
special appropriations of prior years that were authorized at a Town
Meeting beginning 22 or more months before the start of said Annual Town
Meeting.

The requirements of sections 2.1.2 through 2.1.4, inclusive, may be
waived when the Selectmen determine that emergency conditions, or a
situation requiring immediate action or the provisions of any general or
special law require such a waiver.

### SECTION 2.1.5 NOTICE OF MEETINGS

(A) Notification. The Board of Selectmen shall cause copies of the
    Warrant for each Town Meeting to be filed with the Town Clerk, and
    shall direct the Town Clerk to publicly post such copies of the
    Warrant on the principal Town Bulletin Board at least
    fourteen(14)days before the Annual Town Meeting and at least
    fourteen (14) days before any Special Town Meeting is to convene.
    Such posting shall be deemed to be the legal notification of such
    meeting and the legal service of such warrant.

(B) Distribution. The Board of Selectmen shall cause a copy of the
    articles in the warrant for each Town Meeting to be published in a
    newspaper of general circulation within the Town, to be posted on
    the Town website, and to be delivered in hand, or mailed, either
    separately or as a part of the Combined Reports, to the Moderator
    and to the representative Town Meeting members, and shall cause the
    posting of copies of the same in ten public places in the Town, at
    least seven (7) days before a Special Town Meeting
    is to convene and at least fifteen (15) days before an Annual Town
    Meeting is to convene. The requirements provided in this subsection
    (B) shall not be deemed to be a part of the legal notification of
    such meeting or the legal service of such warrant and the failure to
    comply with the provisions of this subsection (B) shall not serve to
    invalidate the proceedings of any Town Meeting.

### SECTION 2.1.6 TIME OF MEETINGS

The Town shall meet in an Annual Town Meeting and in Special Meetings at
such times as the Selectmen may direct or as otherwise provided by law.

### SECTION 2.1.7 THE ANNUAL TOWN ELECTION

Annually, not later than the third Tuesday in January, the Selectmen
shall determine a date for the Annual Town Election. Said election shall
be called on either the first or second Tuesday in May. The Selectmen
may alter the date of the Annual Town Election to conform to the date of
any Special State Primary, Special Presidential Preference Primary or
Special State Election, which occur during April or May, without regard
to the limitations of this by-law.

### SECTION 2.1.8 REPRESENTATIVE TOWN MEETING

The representative Town Meeting shall be in accordance with the standard
form set forth in General Laws, Chapter 43A.

### SECTION 2.1.9 CONDUCT OF THE MEETINGS

The proceedings of Town Meetings shall be conducted in accordance with
the handbook of parliamentary law, “Town Meeting Time” published by the
Massachusetts Moderators Association, the traditions in Brookline and
these by-laws.

### SECTION 2.1.10 TOWN MEETING MEMBERS AT LARGE

Pursuant to the authority contained in Section 5 of Chapter 43A of the
General Laws (Ter. Ed.) the following officers are designated as Town
meeting members at large: (1) the members, inhabitants of the Town, who
are the elected representatives of the Town in the General Court of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, (2) the moderator, (3) the town clerk,
and (4) the Board of Selectmen.

### SECTION 2.1.11 TOWN MEETING PROCEDURE

Before the opening session of any annual or special Town Meeting, except
for a Special Town Meeting within the Town Meeting, the Town Meeting
members who so desire shall be given the opportunity to recite the
pledge of allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.

After the beginning of the first or opening session of any annual or
special Town meeting, except for a Special Town Meeting within the Town
Meeting, the Town Meeting members who so desire shall be given the
opportunity, prior to consideration of any warrant articles, to sing the
National Anthem.

There shall be no obligation or requirement imposed upon any individual
Town meeting member or other person present to participate in any way if
he or she does not desire to do so.

Any Town Meeting Member may, once recognized by the Moderator, request
information from the Town Administrator or any Department Head; and the
Town Administrator or his or her designee and when the subject matter
before the meeting is the operation, management or funding of a
department, the Department Head or his or her designee, shall be allowed
to address the Meeting and respond to the request.

On matters requiring a two thirds vote by statute, the vote need not be
counted unless the reported result of the vote is immediately questioned
by seven or more town meeting members as provided in Chapter 39, section
15 of the General Laws.

### SECTION 2.1.12 CHALLENGE TO THE VALIDITY OF AN ACTION TAKEN BY TOWN MEETING

Neither the Board of Selectmen, nor any department or agency which
reports to the Board of Selectmen, shall file any petition or other
document with the Attorney General or commence any legal proceeding
contending that any action taken by Town Meeting is invalid, unless the
following conditions have been complied with:

(a) Such petition or other document or the commencement of such legal
    proceeding shall have been authorized by the Board of Selectmen; and

(b) Subsequent to such authorization, the Town Moderator and Town
    Counsel shall have been notified in writing of such action, and
    provided with copies of such petition or document or the documents
    prepared for the purpose of such court action at least seven days
    before any such document is filed with the Attorney General or any
    court.

No other elected Town board, nor any department or agency which reports
to any such other elected Town board, shall file any petition or other
document with the Attorney General or commence any legal proceeding
contending that any action taken by Town Meeting is invalid, unless such
Town board first authorizes such action and complies with the conditions
described in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b), above.

Neither the Board of Selectmen nor any other elected board shall utilize
the services of Town Counsel for the purposes of challenging an action
taken by Town Meeting. Town Counsel shall use his or her best efforts to
defend the action taken by the Town Meeting upon receipt of notice under
this by-law. In the event that Town Counsel is unable for any reason to
defend such action, including without limitation that Town Counsel has
expressed the opinion that such action is illegal, the Moderator shall
take such action as he or she deems necessary in order to present such
defense, and Town Counsel may then represent the challenger on the Town
Meeting action in controversy.

Nothing in this Article shall be construed to prohibit any employee or
elected official of the Town, acting in his or her individual capacity,
from communicating with the Attorney General, filing a petition or other
document with the Attorney General, or commencing legal proceedings,
contending that any action taken by Town Meeting is invalid.

### SECTION 2.1.13 PETITION ARTICLES

The Selectmen shall insert in the warrant for every special town meeting
all subjects the insertion of which shall be requested of them in
writing by ten (10) or more registered voters in the Town.
