## ARTICLE 2.5<br/>REPORTS

### SECTION 2.5.1 SPECIAL COMMITTEE REPORTS

All special committees created by a Town Meeting or the Moderator shall
make a report of their findings and recommendations by filing a signed
copy thereof with the Town Clerk. Forthwith upon the filing of any such
report, the Town Clerk shall cause copies thereof to be delivered or
mailed to the Moderator, the Board of Selectmen, and the Advisory
Committee, and to every other elected officer, Town Meeting Member and
appointed officer who requests a copy of the report.

In the absence of a final report, each such committee shall annually, at
least thirty (30) days before the start of the Annual Town Meeting, file
with the Town Clerk an interim report of its doings, and the Town Clerk
shall cause one copy of the same to be printed and mailed out with the
combined reports called for in Section 2.5.2 of this Article.

### SECTION 2.5.2 COMBINED REPORTS

The explanation and relevant data submitted by the petitioners for a
petition article shall be included, together with article, in the
combined reports. The Board of Selectmen and the Advisory Committee
shall prepare written reports, stating their recommendations and the
reasons therefor, for all articles in the Warrant for a Town Meeting.
The reports shall be included in the combined reports to be delivered or
mailed as follows:

The Town Clerk shall cause one copy of the combined reports to be
delivered or mailed not later than the seventh day prior to each special
Town Meeting and not later than the fifteenth day prior to the start of
each Annual Town Meeting, to the residence of every elected officer,
Town Meeting Member and member of the Advisory Committee, and to the
residence of every appointed officer, resident, real estate owner and
town employee who requested, in writing, a copy of that combined
reports. The combined reports shall contain each article in the warrant
for such Town Meeting followed by the report of the Board of Selectmen
on such article and then the report of the Advisory Committee on such
article and every report made, not later than the twenty-second day
prior to such Town Meeting and after the twenty-second day prior to the
previous Town Meeting, by a Special Committee created by a Town Meeting
or the Moderator.

The Combined Reports shall include, with each recommendation of the
Board of Selectmen, a roll-call showing the vote of each member; and
shall include, with each recommendation of the Advisory Committee, a
statement of the number of members voting for and against the
recommendation and the date of the vote. When a minority report is
presented, the Combined Reports shall identify the members supporting
the minority report.

The report of the Board of Selectmen on the article at an Annual Town
Meeting providing for termination and close-out of prior special
appropriations shall include a statement from the Comptroller listing
each account for such an appropriation as falls within the scope of the
article, the purpose of the appropriation, and the unexpended balance as
of the last day of March in the year of said Annual Town Meeting.

### SECTION 2.5.3 PERMANENT RECORD OF REPORTS

Copies of each report described in Section 2.5.1 and the combined
reports described in Section 2.5.2 shall be kept permanently in the
office of the Town Clerk and for at least five years, after its
publication, in the Public Library and every Branch thereof, available
for inspection by all interested persons.

### SECTION 2.5.4 MISCELLANEOUS

Failure to comply with the provisions in Section 2.1.2 through Section
2.1.4, inclusive, Section 2.1.6 and in Article 2.5 shall not affect the
legality of any town meeting or any action taken thereat.
