## ARTICLE 2.2<br/>ADVISORY COMMITTEE

### SECTION 2.2.1 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS

The Moderator shall, in June of each year, appoint citizens to serve on
the Advisory Committee (herein the Committee) established under G.L.c.
39, Section 16, and this Bylaw. Members of the Committee shall serve
without compensation. The Committee shall consist of not fewer than
twenty nor more than thirty registered voters of the Town. At least
sixteen Committee members shall be elected Town Meeting Members at the
time of their appointment. At least one elected Town Meeting Member
shall be appointed from each precinct. No more than eight members shall
be appointed who are not elected Town Meeting Members at the time of
their appointment. No more than four members of the Committee shall
reside in the same precinct. No member of the Committee shall be an
employee of the Town or a member of any standing Board or Committee
having charge of the expenditure of money; but, this restriction shall
not disqualify from appointment to the Committee, members of special
committees, which may be created from time to time by Town Meeting, the
Moderator or the Selectmen to report on specific matters.

### SECTION 2.2.2 TERMS OF APPOINTMENT

Members shall hold office from July 1st, in the year of their
appointment, for three year staggered terms and until their successors
are appointed. All vacancies shall be filled by the Moderator for the
unexpired remainder of the term of the appointee's predecessor.

A member of the Committee shall cease to be a member upon the occurrence
of any of the following events:

1.  Removal of residence from the Town of Brookline.

2.  Absence from seven or more duly called and held meetings of the
    Committee during any year of the memberâ€™s term, considering each
    period from July 1 to the following June 30 as a year for this
    purpose.

A member of the Committee who is a Town Meeting Member shall cease to be
a member of the Committee effective the 30th day of June following the occurrence of any of the following
events:

3.  Removal of residence from the precinct from which elected a Town
    Meeting Member.

4.  Failure of re-election as a Town Meeting Member.

5.  Expiration of term as a Town Meeting Member.

Upon ascertaining that any of events 1-5 has occurred, the Chairman of
the Committee shall notify the Secretary of the Committee who shall give
written notice to the member in question. A copy of such notice shall be
sent promptly to the moderator.

### SECTION 2.2.3 COMMITTEE ORGANIZATION

The Committee shall hold its first meeting in each year no later than
the fifteenth day of July, to be called by the Moderator, and shall hold
such other meetings as it may deem advisable. It shall elect annually at
its first meeting a Chairman and Vice-Chairman from its own members. The
Vice-Chairman, upon the request of, in the absence of, or in the event
of the death, disability or resignation of the Chairman, shall act as
Chairman of the Advisory Committee until a new Chairman is elected. In
the event of the death, disability, or resignation of the Chairman or
Vice-Chairman, the committee shall at a meeting within twenty days elect
a successor from its own members. The Committee shall appoint annually a
Secretary who is not one of its members, who shall hold office until
another Secretary is appointed. The duties of the Secretary shall be
defined by the Committee. Subcommittees and the chairmen thereof shall
be appointed by the Chairman not later than the thirtieth day of July in
each year.

### SECTION 2.2.4 SUB-COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS

The Chairman of the Committee may establish from time to time special
committees of the Committee to carry out specific studies. Periodically
during the tenure of a special committee and upon the request of the
Chairman the special committee shall report back to the Committee its
findings to date. The Chairman may excuse members of such special
committees from the requirement that they attend meetings of the
Committee. For purposes of computing a quorum at meetings of the
Committee, those members with special committee assignments will be
omitted, if the Chairman has so excused them and if they are not
present.

Any member of a special committee, so excused, may nonetheless attend
duly scheduled meetings and participate fully in the affairs of the
Committee.

### SECTION 2.2.5 GENERAL DUTIES

The Committee shall consider any and all municipal questions, including
appropriation requests and proposed action under all articles in the
warrant for a Town Meeting, for the purpose of making reports and
recommendations to the Town. The Committee shall submit a budget at the
Annual Town Meeting. It may examine the books and records of any board,
committee or officer of the Town so far as permitted by law. The
Superintendent of Schools (in the case of school appropriations) and the
Town Administrator (in the case of all other appropriations) shall
submit their requests for appropriations to the Committee by February
15th or the next town business day if said date falls on a weekend or
holiday; or seven days after the Governor submits the annual budget to
the General Court, whichever is later.
