## ARTICLE 3.10<br>COUNCIL ON AGING

### SECTION 3.10.1 ESTABLISHMENT

There is hereby established a Council on Aging for the purpose of
coordinating or carrying out programs designed to meet the local
problems of the aging. Said Council shall cooperate with the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts Executive Office of Elder Affairs and West
Suburban Elder Services and shall be cognizant of all State and federal
legislation concerning funding, information exchange, and program
planning which exist for better community programming for the elderly.

### SECTION 3.10.2 MEMBERSHIP

The Council on Aging shall consist of the Chair of the Board of
Selectmen, Chair of the Park and Recreation Commission, Chair of the
Housing Authority, Director of Public Health, Superintendent of Schools,
Head Librarian, or their respective representatives, and, in addition,
eleven citizens reflecting the general composition of the citizenry of
Brookline. The Citizen members shall be appointed by the Board of
Selectmen after receiving recommendations from public and private
agencies concerned with the welfare of older persons. Fifty-one percent
of the members of the Council on Aging shall be composed of persons 60
years of age or over. The terms of office expire on August 31, unless
otherwise specified by the Selectmen or unless such appointment is for
an indefinite term.

### SECTION 3.10.3 TERMS AND CHAIR

Length of term of Citizen Members shall be determined in the following
manner: Initial Citizen Membership shall be split as evenly as possible
into thirds. One-third of the Citizen Members shall be initially
appointed for a one year term. One-third of the Citizen Members shall be
initially appointed for a two-year term. One-third of the Citizen
Members shall be initially appointed for a three-year term. All
subsequent Citizen Members shall be appointed for a three-year term.

The Board of Selectmen shall designate annually a Chairman of the
Council. The Selectmen shall appoint a director.

### SECTION 3.10.4 NON-VOTING MEMBERS

The Board of Selectmen may appoint from time to time up to fifteen (15)
non-voting members to the Council on Aging who shall be designated
Associate Members. One-third of the Associate Members shall be appointed
initially for a one year term; one-third of the Associate Members shall
be appointed initially for a two year term; and one-third of the
Association members shall be appointed initially for a three year term.
All subsequent Associate Members shall be appointed for a three year
term. The terms of office expire on August 31, unless otherwise
specified by the Selectmen or unless such appointment is for an
indefinite term.

### SECTION 3.10.5 GENERAL AUTHORIZATION

The members of the Council shall serve without compensation. The
Director shall have the power and authority to engage or employ any
clerical or other assistance which it may require for the discharge of
its duties, but not in excess of the sum or sums which may from time to
time be appropriated for the use of said Council.

### SECTION 3.10.6 ANNUAL REPORT

The Council on Aging shall submit an Annual Report to the Board of
Selectmen with a copy of the Report directed to the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, Department ofElder Affairs.

### SECTION 3.10.7 OFFICIAL NAME

The Council shall be known as Council on Aging.
