## ARTICLE 3.14<br/>DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION AND OFFICE OF DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND COMMUNITY RELATIONS

### SECTION 3.14.1 ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE

This by-law establishes the Diversity, Inclusion, and Community
Relations Commission (the “Commission”) and the Office of Diversity,
Inclusion, and Community Relations Department (the “Office”).

Valuing diversity and inclusion in and for the Brookline community, the
Commission, in coordination with the Office, aims to support a welcoming
environment by encouraging cooperation, tolerance, and respect among and
by all persons who come in contact with the Town of Brookline (“the
Town”), including residents, visitors, persons passing through the Town,
employers, employees, and job applicants, and by advancing, promoting
and advocating for the human and civil rights of all through education,
awareness, outreach and advocacy.

The Purpose of the Commission and the goal of the Town shall be to
strive for a community characterized by the values of inclusion. The
Town believes that inclusion will provide opportunities and incentives
to all who touch Brookline to offer their energy, creativity, knowledge,
and experiences to the community and to all civic engagements, including
town government; and that inclusion is, therefore, a critically
important government interest of the Town.

Inclusion is defined as actively pursuing goals of including,
integrating, engaging, and welcoming into the community all persons who
come in contact with the Town regardless of their race, color,
ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression,
disability, age, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, military or
veteran status, genetic information, marital status, receipt of public
benefits (including housing subsidies), or family status (e.g. because
one has or doesn't have children) (herein, “Brookline Protected
Classes”).

In striving to achieve the goal of inclusion, the Commission shall be
guided by the following general principles: (1) the foundation of
community is strong and positive community relations among and between
all groups and individuals in the community, regardless of their
membership in a Brookline Protected Class; (2) that the substance of
community is the recognition of human rights principles as applicable to
all persons who come in contact with the Town; (3) that justice in a
community requires, at a minimum, monitoring and enforcing civil rights
laws as they apply to all persons who come in contact with the Town; and
(4) that the commitment of the Town to these principles requires
vigorous affirmative steps to carry out the word and spirit of the
foregoing.

The Commission shall consist of fifteen (15) residents of the Town - who
shall be called Commissioners.

Commissioners shall be appointed by the Board of Selectmen (the “BOS”)
and shall hold office for a period of three (3) years except that of the
fifteen (15) Commissioners first appointed; five or 1/3 of the total
shall be appointed for one (1) year, five or 1/3 of the total shall be
appointed for two (2) years, and five or 1/3 of the total shall be
appointed for three (3) years. The term of office of the Commissioners
shall expire on August 31 of the appropriate year. The BOS may appoint
additional non-voting associate (bylaw §3.1.5) members as it determines
to be necessary, which may include youth or persons who do not reside in
Brookline, but have a substantial connection to Brookline, or the
Brookline Public Schools. The BOS shall select one of its members to
serve *ex officio* as a non-voting member of the Commission. A quorum of
the Commission shall consist of a majority of the serving members on the
Commission, with a minimum of six.

The BOS shall seek a diverse and inclusive group of candidates for the
Commission, which may include youth. Candidates for Commissioner shall
be qualified for such appointment by virtue of demonstrated relevant and
significant knowledge, life experience, or training. The composition of
the Commission shall include persons with the types of such knowledge,
experience, or training as is necessary to enable the Commission to
perform the duties assigned to it by this Bylaw. All Commissioners shall
serve without compensation.

In the event of the discontinuance of the service of a Commissioner due
to death or resignation, such Commissioner’s successor shall be
appointed to serve the unexpired period of the term of said
Commissioner. The Commission may recommend to the BOS candidates to fill
such vacancies. The current Human Relations/Youth Resources Commission
shall be dissolved at the time that appointments are made for the
Commission established by this Bylaw. However, the current Human
Relations/Youth Resources Commissioners may be considered for
appointment to the new Commission.

### SECTION 3.14.2 APPOINTMENT, ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTOR
AND CHIEF DIVERSITY OFFICER

There shall be a Diversity, Inclusion and Community Relations Office
(the “Office”), which shall be a unit of the Selectmen's Office. The
Town Administrator, after consultation with the Commission, shall
recommend to the BOS for appointment a professional in the field of
human relations or similar relevant field of knowledge, who shall be
known as the Director of the Diversity, Inclusion an Community Relations
Office (the “Director”) and and that person shall also serve as the
Chief Diversity Officer (“CDO”) for the Town.

The Director shall offer professional and administrative support to the
Commission in the administration of its functions and policies under
this Bylaw or any other Bylaw giving the Commission responsibilities. If
needed, the Director shall ask for additional assistance to carry out
that person's duties. The Office shall be physically situated in
whatever department the Town Administrator determines would be easiest
to provide the Director any such assistance.

The Director shall be a Department Head/Senior Administrator and shall
report to the Town Administrator. The Director/CDO may bring a matter
directly to the attention of the BOS in the event that person believes,
in their professional judgment, that a particular situation so warrants.
The CDO may attend meetings held by the Town Administrator with
Department Heads and shall work with the Human Resources Office to
promote diversity and inclusion.

The CDO shall serve in the role of ombudsperson to provide information
and guidance and dispute resolution services to all persons who come in
contact with the Town who feel that they have been discriminated against
or treated unfairly due to their membership in a Brookline Protected
Class, in relation to Fair Housing or Contracting issues, interactions
with businesses or institutions in the Town, or interactions with the
Town and/or employees of the Town.

The CDO shall be responsible, with the advice and counsel of the
Commission, the Human Resources Director, and the Human Resources Board,
for the preparation and submission to the BOS of a recommended diversity
and inclusion policy for the Town, including equal employment
opportunity and affirmative action, and recommended implementation
procedures. The diversity and inclusion policy shall address hiring,
retention, and promotion, and steps to ensure a work environment that is
friendly to diversity and inclusion.

The CDO shall respect the rights to privacy and confidentiality of all
individuals to the fullest extent required by law. The CDO may attempt
to mediate disputes/complaints and/or to refer such complainants to the
Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination, the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission, the Office of Town Counsel, or such other body
as the CDO deems appropriate. The Director/CDO will report on these
incidents to the Commission in terms of issues and trends but shall show
full respect for the rights to privacy and confidentiality of the
individuals involved to the fullest extent required by law. In the event
that a person who come in contact with the Town, except for employees of
the Town, chooses to bring a complaint to the Commission after having
sought the services of the CDO in said officer’s role as an
ombudsperson, the Director/CDO may discuss the case in general terms
with the Commission (see section 3.14.3 (A)(5)).

The CDO shall also serve as an ombudsperson for employees of the Town if
they feel they have been discriminated against or treated unfairly on
the basis of membership in a Brookline Protected Class. The CDO may
attempt to mediate such disputes or refer such employees to the Human
Resources Office, the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination,
the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, their union representative,
and/or such other body that the CDO deems appropriate. The Director/CDO
shall hold all such Town/employee matters in confidence and shall
respect the privacy rights of any such individuals but may discuss, in
general terms, the problems or issues that such individual cases suggest
with the Commission, provided however, that there is no ongoing or
threatened litigation concerning the matter, and doing so does not
violate any persons rights to privacy.

### SECTION 3.14.3 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION

(A) To implement the Mission of the Commission and the Office, the
Commission, with the assistance of the Director and the Director’s
staff, shall have the following responsibilities:

1. Strive to eliminate discriminatory barriers to jobs, education, and
housing opportunities within the Town and work to increase the capacity
of public and private institutions to respond to discrimination against
individuals in the Town based on their membership in a Brookline
Protected Class;
2. Enhance communications across and among the community to promote
awareness, understanding and the value of cultural differences, and
create common ground for efforts toward public order and social justice;
3. Work with the BOS, the Town’s Human Resources Office, the School
Committee, and other Town departments, commissions, boards, and
committees to develop commitments and meaningful steps to increase
diversity and inclusion, awareness, and sensitivity to civil and human
rights in all departments and agencies of Town government;
4. Provide advice and counsel to the CDO on the preparation of a
diversity and inclusion policy for recommendation to the BOS,
including equal employment opportunity and affirmative action
procedures, or amendments or revisions thereto; make suggestions,
through the CDO to the Human Resources Director, the Human Resources
Board, and the School Committee on the implementation of the diversity
and inclusion policy;
5. Complaints Against the Town: Receive complaints, directly or through
the CDO, against the Town, its employees, agencies, or officials
concerning allegations of discrimination or bias from all persons who
come in contact with the Town, except Town employees (see section
3.14.2), and after notifying the Town Administrator, review and
summarize the complaint as well as any issues of concern to the
Commission, without investigating or making determinations of fact, or
drawing any legal conclusions, concerning allegations of discrimination
or bias against a member of a Brookline Protected Class, by any Town
agency, Town official or employee. The Commission/CDO, may in addition
(1) present its summary and concerns to the Town Administrator and the
BOS for consideration of further action and/or (2) provide the
complainant with information on their options to bring proceedings at
the Massachusetts Commission on Discrimination or other appropriate
federal, state, or local agencies. This bylaw does not preclude any
complainant from alternatively or additionally using other complaint
procedures, such as the Police Department's Citizen Complaint Procedure
or the Human Resources Office’s procedures;
6. Complaints Against the Public Schools of Brookline: Receive
complaints, directly or through the CDO, against the Public Schools of
Brookline, its employees, agencies, or officials concerning allegations
of discrimination or bias from all persons who come in contact with the
Schools, except school employees, and, after notifying the
Superintendent of Schools, the Assistant Superintendent for Human
Resources, and/or the School Committee of the complaint, review and
summarize the complaint as well as any issues of concern to the
Commission, without investigating or making determinations of fact or
drawing any legal conclusions, concerning allegations of discrimination
or bias against a member of a Brookline Protected Class, by any School
official or employee. The Commission/CDO, may in addition (1) present
its summary and concerns to the School Superintendent and/or the School
Committee for consideration of further action and/or (2) provide the
complainant with information on their options regarding dispute
resolution and the boards, agencies, or courts to which the complainant
may file a complaint. The Public Schools of Brookline are encouraged to
engage the expertise and/or resources of the CDO/Commission when
pursuing resolution of any such complaints and/or when revising policies
and procedures relative to diversity and inclusion.
7. Other Complaints: Receive complaints, according to procedures
developed by the Commission and as approved by the BOS, and initiate
preliminary review of the facts, without drawing any legal conclusions,
from any person who comes in contact with the Town, concerning
allegations of discrimination or bias against a member of a Brookline
Protected Class. The Commission shall also have the authority, in its
discretion, to take one or more of the following actions:
  1. Provide the complainant with information about their options to
     bring proceedings at the Massachusetts Commission on Discrimination or
     other appropriate federal, state, or local agency;
  2. Refer the complainant and any other parties to the complaint to the
     CDO acting as ombudsperson or to a local or regional mediation service;
  3. Present any results of preliminary review of the alleged facts to
     the Town Administrator and/or the BOS, in an appropriate case, for
     action;
8. The Commission shall develop, to the extent permissible by law, a
log for the complaints referred to in subsections (5) and (6) above,
provided that such publication contains public record information only
and does not violate anyone's right to privacy, and the Commission shall
compile and maintain statistical records regarding the nature of
complaints, types of incidents, number and types of complaints, and
other pertinent information, without identifying specific individuals,
and include such information in the Annual Report filed with the Board
pursuant to Section 3.14.4 of this Bylaw.
9. Develop official forms for the filing of complaints under
paragraphs (5) and (6) above and also procedures for the receipt and
follow-up by the Commission of such complaints;
10. Carry out the responsibilities and duties given to the Commission by
rules or regulations, if any, promulgated under Section 3.14.4 of this
Bylaw in relation to Fair Housing responsibilities, as authorized by
law, under By-Law 5.5;
11. With respect to any complaints or patterns of complaints involving
the civil or human rights of any persons who come in contact with the
Town, work with the CDO, in such officer’s role as ombudsperson to
facilitate necessary changes that will reduce and eliminate violations
of rights;
12. Institute and assist in the development of educational programs to
further community relations and understanding among all persons in the
Town, including Town employees;
13. Serve as an advocate for youth on issues arising in the schools
and the community, concerning diversity and inclusion, and encourage
public and private agencies to respond to those youth needs.

(B) To carry out the foregoing responsibilities, the Commission is
authorized to work with community organizations, government and
nonprofit agencies, educational institutions, persons with relevant
expertise, and others to:

1. Develop educational programs and campaigns to increase awareness of
human and civil rights, advance diversity and inclusion, eliminate
discrimination, and ensure that the human and civil rights of all
persons are protected and assist in the development of educational
programs to further community relations and understanding among all
people, including employees of all departments and agencies within the
Town;
2. Conduct or receive research in the field of human relations and
issue reports and publications on its findings or, where appropriate,
submit local or state-wide proposed legislation, after approval by the
BOS and review by Town Counsel, to further human and civil rights of all
persons who come in contact with the Town, provided that the Commission
shall evaluate all such research conducted or received for its relevancy
and validity and for its openness to diverse viewpoints and
perspectives;
3. Receive and review information on trends and developments in youth
research, services, and programs, both generally and as they relate to
youth who are members of a Brookline Protected Class, and consider the
applicability of such research, services, or programs to Brookline,
provided that the Commission shall evaluate all such research conducted
or received for its relevancy and validity and for its openness to
diverse viewpoints and perspectives;
4. Do anything else deemed appropriate in the furtherance of its
general duties and that are not inconsistent with its Mission, the State
Constitution and laws, or the Town Bylaws.

(C) On a bi-annual basis, prepare written organizational goals for the
Commission (the “Commission's Goals”) that are (i) specific, (ii)
measurable, (iii) attainable with the resources and personnel of the
Commission, (iv) relevant to the mission of the Commission, (v) time
bound as either short term or long term, and (vi) capable of being
evaluated on a continuing basis and at the next goal setting point. The
Commission’s Goals shall be submitted to the BOS at a public meeting and
posted on the Town’s website. The Commission shall receive and consider
the comments of the BOS at the public meeting and shall also receive and
consider written comments from the community on the Commission’s Goals.

### SECTION 3.14.4 RULES AND REGULATIONS

In order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this Bylaw, the
Commission, with the approval of the BOS, after review by the Town
Counsel, shall adopt procedural rules and regulations as necessary to
guide it in carrying out its responsibilities. Such rules and
regulations shall require that actions by the Commission be taken by a
quorum or larger vote of the Commissioners and shall include procedures
for holding regular public meetings, including at least one public
hearing annually to apprise the public on the status of civil rights,
diversity, inclusion and community relations in the Town and to hear the
concerns of the public on those issues; and may establish procedures and
rules and regulations to carry out its responsibilities with respect to
Fair Housing. Such rules and regulations may also provide for the
governance of the Commission with respect to matters such as the
appointments of subcommittees as necessary to deal with specific
community issues or concerns.

### SECTION 3.14.5 INFORMATION, COOPERATION, AND DIALOGUE

The Town Administrator shall be notified of all complaints that the
Commission receives from any persons who come in contact with the Town
related to discrimination or unfair treatment due to their status as a
member of a Brookline Protected Class. In the event that such complaints
fall within the purview of the Superintendent of Schools, the
Superintendent shall also be notified. All departments and agencies in
the Town shall cooperate fully with the Commission's reasonable requests
for information concerning such complaints and when appropriate engage
with the Commission in a dialogue on them. All such requests and
dialogue shall respect and protect, to the fullest extent possible, the
privacy of all involved and shall comply with all local, state and
federal laws.

The Director of Human Resources shall annually present a report to the
Commission concerning the Town's statistics on employment diversity in
Town departments and staff, as well as the efforts of the Town to
increase the employment diversity of Town departments and staff. The
School Superintendent and the Library Director, or their designees,
shall annually provide a report to the Commission on their statistics on
employment diversity, including but not limited to the most recently
completed EEO-5 form. The Police Chief shall present a report to the
Commission on other police matters that touch on the Commission's
mission. The Commission may respond to such reports through dialogue
and/or through written reports; and all Town departments, including the
Brookline Public Schools, are encouraged to cooperate with the
Commission as it reasonably requests.

### SECTION 3.14.6 REPORT

The Commission shall submit an annual report to the BOS, the School
Committee, and the Board of Library Trustees, detailing its activities
and the results thereof. The Annual Report shall include (i) a review of
the implementation of the diversity and inclusion policy by the Town,
(ii) the Commission’s Goals and a report on the extent to which the
goals have been achieved to that point, (iii) a review of reports
received by the Commission from the Director of Human Resources, the
School Superintendent, the Library Director, and other Town departments
or agencies, (iv) a narrative discussion of any impediments to the
achievement of the Commission’s Goals and the implementation of the
diversity and inclusion policy, and (v) recommendations of ways that
such impediments could be removed. A synopsis of such report shall be
published as part of the Annual Report of the Town.

### SECTION 3.14.7 FIVE YEAR REVIEW

Beginning no later than July 1, 2019 and at least every five years
thereafter, the Commission shall review this Bylaw and any other related
Town bylaws, in consultation with other pertinent departments, and
suggest changes if necessary.

### SECTION 3.14.8 SEVERABILITY

The provisions of this Bylaw shall be deemed to be severable. Should any
of its provisions be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, the
remainder of this Bylaw shall continue to be in full force and effect.

### SECTION 3.14.9 RESOLUTION OF CONFLICTING PROVISIONS

References in Bylaws adopted prior to May 2014 to the Human
Relations/Youth Resources Commission and the Human Relations/Youth
Resources Department henceforth shall be interpreted as referring to the
Diversity, Inclusion and Community Relations Commission and Office,
respectively. In case of any conflict between this Bylaw and other
Bylaws, the Provision(s) last adopted by Town Meeting shall prevail.

### SECTION 3.14.10 APPLICATION OF THIS BYLAW

To the extent that any remedies in this Bylaw conflict with grievance or
dispute resolution procedures in collective bargaining agreements with
Town employees, the provisions of the collective bargaining agreements
shall apply.
