## ARTICLE 3.11B<br/>INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEPARTMENT

### SECTION 3.11B.1 ESTABLISHMENT

The Information Technology Department, hereinafter referred to as the
Department, is hereby established. The Department is responsible for the
integration of all activities and resources designated as: 1. systems
and data processing, comprised of computer-based systems design and
implementation, applications, and operating software; 2.
telecommunications systems and networks, comprised of the integration of
planning, development, and implementation of all systems and network
services; 3. delivery of applications and other information services
products that meet the users' specifications in terms of quality and
cost; 4. protection of the Town's computer data and information assets
and resources; 5. identification of opportunities in the development and
support of new and existing technologies; 6. training of employees in
the use of various aspects of information technology; and 7. formulation
of an annual Information Technology Capital Plan as part of the Capital
Improvements Program (CIP).

### SECTION 3.11B.2 PURPOSE

It is the intent and purpose of this By-Law to establish a department
whose mission it is to assure that technology is used to enhance the
delivery of town and school services and information to the community.
The Department will work to attain efficiencies and economies of scale;
reduce or eliminate duplication and overlapping of services,
responsibilities, and functions; improve the coordination of planning
for the use of technology between and among various town departments;
and manage the implementation of all technology-related projects.

### SECTION 3.11B.3 CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER

(A) Appointment & Term of Office. There shall be a Chief Information
Officer, hereinafter referred to as the “CIO”, recommended by the Town
Administrator with the concurrence of the Superintendent of Schools for
appointment by the Board of Selectmen in accordance with the provisions
in Chapter 270 of the Acts of 1985. The appointment shall be made
annually for a term of one year, commencing July 1 of each year and
continuing until the appointment and qualification of a successor.

(B) Qualifications. The CIO shall be a person especially fitted by
education, training and experience to perform the duties and exercise
the powers of the office.

(C) Powers & Duties. The CIO shall be responsible for the effective
management, administration and coordination of all operations within the
Department including financial affairs and the management,
administration and control of all personnel assigned to the Department.
In conjunction with the preparation of the annual Financial Plan, the
CIO shall review all hardware and software requests for all Town
departments. The CIO shall appoint and may remove all other personnel
within the Department.

### SECTION 3.11B.4 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ADVISORY COMMITTEE

The Board of Selectmen shall appoint five residents to serve on the
Information Technology Advisory Committee, hereafter referred to as the
“ITAC”, for three-year staggered terms. The ITAC shall be responsible
for providing community input to IT decision making, periodically
reviewing the IT Strategic Plan including annual updates, and evaluating
lessons learned from major IT initiatives. The ITAC shall meet
quarterly, and at other times deemed necessary by the CIO and / or the
Chairman of the ITAC.

### SECTION 3.11B.5 INTERDEPARTMENTAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE

The CIO shall form an Interdepartmental Information Technology
Committee, consisting of representatives from town and school
departments that use information technology. The Committee will be
responsible for fostering cross-departmental collaboration, promoting
multilateral communication relating to IT issues among departments, and
reviewing all proposed IT capital projects, thereby ensuring that an
enterprise-wide approach to technology is undertaken, duplication of
services and/or systems is eliminated, and the purchase of incompatible
systems is avoided. The Committee shall meet at the discretion of the
CIO.
