## ARTICLE 3.4<br/>TOWN CLERK

### SECTION 3.4.1 TERM OF OFFICE

There shall be a Town Clerk, elected for a three year term.

### SECTION 3.4.2 GENERAL AUTHORITY

The Town Clerk shall have the care, custody and control of the records
of all Town Meetings, of all births, marriages and deaths and of all
registered voters in the Town. The Town Clerk shall perform and
discharge all of the statutory duties assigned to that office.

### SECTION 3.4.3 TOWN SEAL

The Town Clerk shall have the custody of the town seal.

All conveyances under seal, which may hereafter be executed by the town,
pursuant to a vote of the town or otherwise, shall be sealed with such
seal and subscribed by a majority of the Board of Selectmen.

### SECTION 3.4.4 DEEDS AND CONVEYANCES

The Town Clerk shall keep a true copy (in a book to be kept for such
purpose alone) of all deeds or conveyances executed by the Selectmen.

It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to see that every conveyance to
the town of an interest in land is properly recorded in the Registry of
Deeds.

### SECTION 3.4.5 TOWN REPORTS

The Town Clerk shall cause one copy of the Annual Town Report for each
year to be delivered or mailed not later than the fifteenth day prior to
the commencement of the Annual Town Meeting, to the residence of every
elected and appointed Town Meeting Member, and member of the Advisory
Committee, and to the residence of every resident, real estate owner and
town employee who requests a copy in writing.

Copies of each Annual Town Report shall be kept permanently in the
office of the Town Clerk and for at least five years in the Public
Library and every Branch thereof, available for inspection by all
interested persons.

In lieu of the mailing requirement in paragraph 1 above, the Board of
Selectmen may, at the request of any person listed above send the report
electronically.

### SECTION 3.4.6 TOWN MEETING RESOLUTION NOTICES

If a resolution adopted at a Town Meeting calls for notice to be sent to
any person or entity whether public or private, then, unless otherwise
specified in the resolution, the Town Clerk shall prepare and send such
notice by U.S. mail, with a copy to the principal petitioner(s) by
electronic mail, within 30 days after the dissolution of such Town
Meeting.
