## ARTICLE 3.16<br/>PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION

### SECTION 3.16.1 PARK AND RECREATION AREA PROGRAMS

The Park and Recreation Commission shall, at least annually, (a)
promulgate a proposed Program for such substantial construction,
alteration or repair of the parks and recreation areas in the Town over
the following six years as it may consider appropriate, including
estimates of expected costs; (b) advertise such proposed program at
least twice in a newspaper of general circulation in the Town; (c)
conduct a public hearing concerning such proposed program at a time and
place specified in such advertisement; and (d) after such public hearing
and such further revision as it may consider necessary, submit such
proposed program for approval to the Selectmen.

### SECTION 3.16.2 OPEN SPACE DESIGN REVIEW PANEL

In order to ensure that all plans for the substantial construction,
alteration or repair of a park or recreation area under the jurisdiction
of the Commission respect the historical, cultural, aesthetic, and open
space values of the Town and serve the expressed needs of the primary
community to be served by the improvement, the Commission shall appoint
a Park and Open Space Design Review Panel, hereinafter called the review
panel, for each such plan. The review panel shall consist of four
members to be appointed by the Commission from its membership, and three
members to be appointed by the Commission who represent those people who
are the likely passive and active users of the improvement including,
when appropriate, people from the neighborhood where the improvement is
located. One of the seven shall be trained in landscape architecture or
in another relevant field. The review panel shall choose its
chairperson. The review panel shall meet promptly after its appointment
and shall carry out the following functions: recommendation of a
consultant for the plan, if such a consultant is to be hired; convening
of at least two public hearings; and review of the plan before contracts
for the work are to be let.
