## ARTICLE 3.21<br/>READILY ACCESSIBLE ELECTRONIC MEETING NOTICES, AGENDAS AND RECORDS

### SECTION 3.21.1 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY

This by-law applies to the meetings of all Brookline governmental
bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law, now G.L. c. 39, §§23A et seq.
(hereinafter, respectively, "meetings" and "OML"), and is intended (a)
to take advantage of the internet and its increasing use; (b) to
better implement the spirit of the OML; and (c) to the extent
reasonably practical, to improve opportunities for broader and more
meaningful citizen participation in the business of Town governmental
bodies.

### SECTION 3.21.2 ELECTRONIC NOTIFICATION LIST(S) & CALENDAR

The Information Technology Department ("ITD") shall maintain one or
more broadly available list(s) for the purpose of providing electronic
notifications (such as by email) to Town Meeting Members and other
Town residents who request to be included, prominently promoted on the
Town website’s Homepage, along with a link to a readily available and
current Calendar of upcoming meetings.

### SECTION 3.21.3 MEETING NOTICES AND AGENDAS

(a) Each meeting "notice" required by OML shall not only be "posted"
under the OML at least forty-eight hours before the meeting but,
additionally, shall be posted in electronic format as soon as is
practicable on the Town website Calendar after said meeting has been
scheduled. To the extent possible, each posting shall include (i) an
agenda that is reasonably descriptive of the intended business of the
meeting, subject to later revisions as needed, and (ii) the name of a
contact person along with contact information for further inquiries, for
forwarding messages to the relevant governmental body, for obtaining
background information to the extent readily available, and for
obtaining contact information (or a website link containing such
information) for all of members of the governmental body.

(b) With the assistance and direction of the Town Clerk and ITD, the
information specified above shall be disseminated in a timely manner to
citizens who join the aforementioned notification list(s).

### SECTION 3.21.4 RECORDS

Records of meetings of all Town governmental bodies shall be
reasonably descriptive of the business conducted. and shall include a
summary of discussions, in addition to indicating actions taken and
other requirements of the OML, and shall be accessible electronically
from the Town website as soon as is practicable following the meeting
at issue.

### SECTION 3.21.5 ENFORCEMENT

As to mandates of this by-law that exceed those of state laws,
including the OML, all officials, boards and committees responsible
for appointing members of committees subject to this by-law shall
periodically notify their appointees in writing of the requirements of
this by-law. No additional enforcement powers are hereby conferred
upon the Norfolk County District Attorney beyond the responsibility of
such office with respect to state law, including the OML, nor shall
actions taken at any meeting be held invalid due to failure to comply
with any requirements of this bylaw that exceed those of state laws,
including the OML.

### SECTION 3.21.6 EFFECTIVE DATE

The requirements of this by-law shall become effective on July 01,
2008.
