## ARTICLE 3.7<br/>BUILDING COMMISSION; PROCEDURE FOR THE CONSTRUCTION AND ALTERATION OF TOWN BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES

### SECTION 3.7.1 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS

The Selectmen shall appoint five citizens to serve as members of the
Building Commission (the Commission), which shall have charge and
direction of the construction, repair and alteration of all town
buildings and all buildings and structures placed on town land. The
members of said Commission shall hold office from the 1st of September
following his or her appointment for three year staggered terms, and
until a successor is appointed. Commission appointments shall be made to
preserve three year staggered terms, with two members appointed one
year, two members appointed the following year and one member appointed
the third year. They shall serve without compensation. The Commission
shall comprise a registered architect, a registered engineer, a licensed
builder, and two other citizens. The Building Commissioners shall act as
Secretary of the Commission. The Selectmen shall have the power to fill
any vacancy in the Commission. With respect to the selection of an
architect, engineer, or other consultant (the consultant) for building
projects, the Commission shall by regulation, adopt procedures, by
regulation which conform to the requirements of the laws of
Massachusetts.

### SECTION 3.7.2 PROJECT PROCEDURES

Any town board, commission, or other agency intending to seek funds for
the construction, alteration or repair of a town building or structure
(a project) shall notify the Commission of its intention to do so. The
town agency for whose use the building is proposed is hereinafter
referred to as the Using Agency. Upon receipt of such notice from the
Using Agency, the Building Commission shall decide whether or not the
project shall be carried out in its charge. If the Commission declines
to take charge of the project, the Using Agency may, subject to the
Selectmen's approval and the appropriation of funds, carry out the
project in its charge without regard to the following provisions of this
Article. If the Commission decides to take charge, the Using Agency may
appeal its decision to the Board of Selectmen, which shall make the
final decision on the matter. In deciding whether or not the Commission
shall take charge of the project, the Commission, and the Board of
Selectmen if appealed to, shall consider the size, cost, and complexity
of the project and the personnel and experience of the Using Agency; it
being the intent hereof that all but those projects clearly within the
competence of the Using Agency to administer, will be placed in the
Commission's charge. Any project in the Commission's charge shall be
carried out in the following steps unless waived by the Selectmen as
hereinafter provided:

(a) Step 1: The Using Agency shall formulate a
program in writing for the facility which shall
include, but shall not be limited to, the function and needs which it is
designed to fulfill, expanded services, auxiliary public use, additional
personnel required to maintain the facility, annual maintenance costs,
expected hours of the facility's availability, environmental and
sustainability goals and objectives, and overall effect on the town all
as appropriate for the projectâ€™s scope and budget. Environmental and
sustainability goals and objectives include design and construction
practices that explicitly consider Green technologies, site selection,
waste minimization, energy efficiency, water conservation, indoor
environmental quality, and other environmental and health factors that
may provide financial, environmental, and occupant health and
productivity benefits. In formulating such a program, the Using Agency,
after consultation with the Commission and other agencies or authorities
of the town having an interest in the use or development of the
facility, shall prepare tentative size and cost requirements of the
facility to accommodate such a program. Upon receipt of the program
prepared by the Using Agency, the Commission shall decide if the town
should hire a consultant for the work described in Step 2. If it decides
against engaging such a consultant, it will, with the approval of the
Board of Selectmen and after an appropriation has been authorized by the
town meeting, proceed with the project, and without regard to the
following provisions of this Section. If the Commission decides to
engage such consultant, the Commission shall proceed to Step 2.

(b) Step 2: The Commission shall notify the Using Agency of its decision
to engage a consultant. The Using Agency shall request that the town
meeting appropriate funds for the purpose of compensating a consultant
for the preparation of a feasibility study for the project, schematic
design studies for the project, a cost estimate for the project
(including life-cycle costs), and any special studies which the
Commission and the Using Agency jointly recommend. The work of the
consultant shall consider the investigation, cost-benefit analysis, and
recommendation of appropriate options that address the environmental and
sustainability goals and objectives outlined in paragraph (a) above.
Upon the appropriation of such funds, the consultant shall be selected
in accordance with Step 3.

(c) Step 3: The Selectmen shall appoint a committee of seven members
(the "Committee"), of whom three shall be designated by and be members
of the Commission and three shall be designated by and be members of the
Using Agency. One member shall be designated by the Selectmen, who shall
serve as Chairman. The Committee shall meet promptly after it is
appointed and proceed with the selection of a consultant in accordance
with the procedures adopted by the Commission under Section 1 of this
Article. Having made its selection in accordance with such procedures,
the Committee shall report its selection to the Commission, the Using
Agency, and the Selectmen; and the Selectmen shall thereupon discharge
the Committee. The Commission shall then negotiate, on the town's
behalf, a contract with the selected consultant, which shall be divided
into three discrete phases of work: the first phase shall include those
services for which the town meeting appropriated funds under step 2; the
second phase shall include services necessary or appropriate to develop
the design of the project to the point where bids can be received for
the construction of the project; and the third phase shall include the
administration of the construction contract. The contract shall provide
for termination at will by the town at the end of each of the phases and
shall provide that the parties will not proceed to the second phase or
third phase without further appropriations by townmeeting, as described
in Step 4 and Step 5. The contract shall be subject to the Selectmen's
approval.

(d) Step 4: When the first phase of work has been completed and approved
by the Using Agency, the Commission shall present the consultant's
report to the town meeting. On the basis of the consultant's report, the
Using Agency may request that the town meeting appropriate funds
necessary to compensate the consultant for the second phase under the
consultant's contract. Alternatively, the Commission or the Using Agency
may recommend that the contract be terminated and that a new consultant
be appointed to carry the work forward. In the latter case, the new
consultant shall be selected in accordance with the procedures set forth
in step 3.

(e) Step 5: When the second phase of work has been completed and
approved by the Using Agency, the Commission shall, on behalf of the
town, submit the project as designed to bid in accordance with all
applicable statutes and other requirements. Upon receipt of bids, the
Commission, in consultation with the Using Agency, shall decide whether
they are acceptable to it. If such bids are acceptable to the Commission
and the Using Agency, the Using Agency shall then request that the town
meeting appropriate funds for the construction of the project and to
compensate the consultant under the third phase of the consultant's
contract. The Using Agency shall at the same time request the
appropriation of funds for equipping and furnishing the project,
providing the town meeting with a detailed estimate for such furniture
and equipment, and funds for any other additional expenses to the town
estimated to be incurred when the facility becomes operational.

### SECTION 3.7.3 CONTRACTS

The contracts for construction of a project shall be executed on behalf
of the town by the Commission, with the approval of the Selectmen. All
expenditures made under this Article shall be made by the Commission
with the approval of the Selectmen.

### SECTION 3.7.4 WAIVERS

The Selectmen, if they deem it to be in the best interest of the Town,
may, for any project with an estimated cost of less than \$500,000.00 or
mandated by either the State orFederal Government, waive or consolidate
any or all of the steps set forth in Section 3.7.2., with the exception
of Step 5. Only Town Meeting may waive its rights in Step 5. If the
Selectmen elect to waive the appointment of the Committee, as described
in Step 3, the Commission shall select the architect, engineer, or other
consultant, with the approval of the Using Agency, in accordance with
the procedures adopted by it under Section 3.7.1. Town Meeting may, by a
two-thirds vote, waive any or all of the requirements in Step 1, Step 2,
Step 3 or Step 4.
