## ARTICLE 3.20<br/>MANDATORY EDUCATIONAL TRAINING FOR ALL ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS

### 3.20.1 APPLICABILITY

This by-law is intended to apply to all elected and appointed
officials (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Elected and
Appointed Officials”) who are elected or appointed after the effective
date of this by-law. This by-law shall not apply to School Committee
members under any circumstances or Town Meeting Members unless serving
on a Committee as defined in Section 1.1.4 (c) of these By-Laws, or to
Design Advisory Teams (DAT’s), or to committees formed in individual
schools, however constituted.

### 3.20.2 MANDATORY EDUCATIONAL TRAINING

All Elected and Appointed Officials shall within one hundred and
twenty (120) days before or after their election or appointment to a
Committee or Sub-committee, attend an educational training seminar
hosted by the Office of Town Counsel which shall include the
requirements of the Open Meeting Law and Conflict of Interest Law. In
the alternative, members may meet with Town Counsel, or a member of
his/her staff, to receive such information and training.

### 3.20.3 NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE

Upon completing the required training, Town Counsel shall notify the
Town Clerk and Town Administrator, in writing, of the names of those
Elected and Appointed Officials who have completed the training.

### 3.20.4 NON-COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT

Should an Elected or an Appointed Official fail to participate in the
required training within the mandatory one hundred and twenty (120)
days, the Town Administrator shall notify in writing the appointing
authority, the appropriate Chairman, and the Town Clerk of the names
of the individuals in non-compliance. It will be within the discretion of the appointing
authority to extend the time of compliance an additional 30 days. The
Town Clerk shall maintain a Public Record of Compliance and
Non-Compliance by Elected and Appointed Officials, available for
viewing by the Public upon request.
