## ARTICLE 3.13<br/>HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD

### SECTION 3.13.1 PURPOSE

There is hereby created in the Town of Brookline a Housing Advisory
Board, hereinafter called the Board, to report to and advise the Board
of Selectmen, for the following purposes:

a.  to study and recommend housing policy for the town,

b.  to advise on the coordination of housing policy and programs within
    the town,

c.  to act as Trustees for funds received as gifts, grants, aid,
    reimbursements and payments for housing, including renewal,
    replacement and new construction, 

d.  to propose plans and programs for relieving congestion; substandard,
    decadent or blighted areas; unsanitary or unsafe buildings; and
    for providing safe and sanitary dwellings for families and elderly
    persons of low or moderate income at rentals which they can
    afford; 

e.  to promote the preservation and creation of housing which is,
    affordable to low, moderate and upper-moderate income persons and
    households and families, and

f.  to administer the Housing Trust, hereinafter established. 

### SECTION 3.13.2 MEMBERSHIP

The Housing Advisory Board shall consist of seven residents of the town,
five appointed by the Board of Selectmen for three year staggered terms,
and a member each of the Planning Board and Brookline Housing Authority.
Vacancies shall be filled for unexpired terms. Of the Selectmen's
appointees, one should be a low or moderate income tenant who
demonstrates a knowledge of tenant issues. The other Selectmen's
appointees should have knowledge or experience in one or more of the
following areas: government housing programs, housing or real estate
finances, affordable housing development, design or urban planning, real
estate law. The Selectmen should ensure that all of these areas of
expertise are represented on the Housing Advisory Board.

### SECTION 3.13.3 HOUSING TRUST

There is hereby created in the Town of Brookline a Housing Trust, whose
funds are to be managed and expended under the supervision of the
Housing Advisory Board. The Housing Trust may accept gifts, grants, aid,
reimbursements, payments and appropriations for the purposes set forth
in Section 3.13.1., and the Housing Advisory Board may expend the funds
in the Housing Trust, with the approval of the Board of Selectmen, for
such purposes. Without limiting the foregoing, and with the approval of
the Board of Selectmen, the Board may employ consultants, full or part-
time staff and contract for administrative and support services. All
funds received for the Housing Trust shall be deposited with the
Treasurer and held in a separate account known as the Housing Trust
account. The Brookline Housing Trust fund shall be the sole designee and
recipient of any and all developer cash contributions made to the Town
for affordable housing purposes under Section 4.40 Affordable Housing
Requirements of the Zoning By-law. No expenditures shall be made from
the Housing Trust Fund without the prior approval of the Board of
Selectmen.

### SECTION 3.13.4 DUTIES

In addition to the duties given to the Board in Section 3.13.1., it
shall also review and make recommendations to the Planning Board for
projects under any so-called incentive zoning provisions. The Board
shall, in appropriate cases, act as the negotiating agency with
developers and owners regarding the financial aspects of the development
or conversion of property. The Board may hold both real and personal
property and, without limiting the foregoing, may hold interests in real
and personal property, including mortgages, land leases, easements,
restrictions and options. The Board shall have authority to apply for,
receive and expend grants, aid, reimbursements, gifts and other funding
for housing and conversion projects, including, without limiting the
foregoing, preservation of existing housing, expansion of low, moderate
and upper-moderate housing, and conversion of existing housing or
non-housing structures to low, moderate and upper-moderate income
housing. The Board shall report each year to the Selectmen and the
Annual Town Meeting on progress achieved in meeting any Town-wide goals
and priorities for housing in Brookline adopted by the Selectmen and the
Housing Advisory Board.

### SECTION 3.13.5 POWERS

The Board may use the Housing Trust, or any additional funds that may be
available to provide rent subsidies, mortgage interest payments,
mortgage principal payments, condominium principal or interest payments,
development subsidies and conversion subsidies. The Board may also use
such funding for housing studies and reports, for the employment of
experts and for such purposes it deems necessary or desirable to
accomplish the purposes set forth in Section 3.13.1.
